these are broilers at typical meat birds
just about everybody who does meat birds
has the same hybrid Cornish rock cross
just white birds they grow very quickly
ready in ten weeks from when they're
day-old chicks and at 10 weeks they go
to be butchered and virtually every
chicken that you buy will be one of
these but there's some problems with
them after 10 weeks because they like to
eat so much they continue to eat they
don't do anything other than e they also
have physical problems and while their
meat grows at a rapid rate the
cardiovascular system just isn't meant
to keep up with it now I expect these
guys don't walk very well if you'd see
their feet I feel pretty gnarly oh these
guys weren't necessarily kept in a cage
they were kept fairly well but it's the
breed they can barely barely move around
see they're waddling if we let them out
all they would do is waddle around
probably head for the food boot food
dish and stick their head in it now
anyone anyone who's serious about
growing chickens for meat grows these
because the conversion ratio is so high
you get a good rate of return
unfortunately even if they're organic
there's still this type of hybrid and
they really aren't intended to live like
chickens to act like chickens there's
just little meet growing machines
so organic isn't the solution if you
want ethical birds ethical birds means
not raising livestock like this at all
livestock that is is basically
completely dependent on care and has a
high mortality rate for the sake of
growing meat very quickly there were
four of these birds but to have died
it's very common that these birds die
suddenly their hearts give out because
they can't handle their physical nature
we were given these birds or these birds
were brought to us today for us to
process them the owner isn't really good
at processing he just normally takes his
birds to an abattoir but he only had the
four of course now there's only two so
he asked us if we'd take care of them
for him so we've agreed and we thought
we'd show you what they're like in hopes
that people will choose not to support
an industry that the growth Spurs like
this organic or not yeah
you